youtube is this remarkably malleable art
form
and whether you think of it as a hobby
or as a career and i mean this this
video is really addressed to people who
make the commitment that they want it to
be their career they want to succeed and
admitting that to yourself is difficult
and then really thinking through
philosophically and pragmatically what
are you willing to do to make it happen
so if that's what you want
if you if that's what you want is is to
succeed now what are you willing to do
to make it happen i know a youtube
channel who i gave completely
unsolicited advice to a youtube channel
that does vegan food videos
and she had the honesty to come out and
admit with some anguish and frustration
on camera that what she really wanted
was for youtube to take over her life
where she wouldn't have any other job
for to become her career for her to be
making videos on such a scale that you
know it's it's all the money she needs
in this life and along with that comes
fame and other things
well
you know she makes videos about food
what are you willing to do to get it i
mean like you know you really want to
make videos that are going to bring in
tens of thousands of views hundreds of
thousands of views have you even really
thought that through now i'll come back
to that example i the point of this
video ultimately is to talk about the
stuff i normally don't talk about
because it's not what i'm doing myself
that's not the kind of success i'm i'm
pursuing myself but if admitting that
you want it admitting that that's what
you try to do is one thing
and then thinking strategically
about you know your mission your mandate
aesthetically in terms of the the
container and then also thinking about
the content what it is you're going to
do to succeed in that way i think that
most people really can't be honest
themselves not even at that first step
one of the most important pieces of
advice i give people that i'm giving you
right now
is to think about how happy you'll be if
you get on this path and it ends in
failure there are all kinds of things
that in your mind's eye seem like
they're worth doing
if you presume that you will be a
success but is it worth doing if it ends
in failure or if there's a succession of
failures along the way before whatever
measure of success it is that you
managed to ring out of it
i remember meeting people who were
getting a phd in anthropology at all
phases and stages of that career path
and many of them had it fixed in their
mind's eye that they would be the lucky
minority to go on to get a highly paid
highly celebrated position
as a published famous anthropologist
now that phrase may seem laughable in
itself to many of you in the honest
a famous anthropologist what does that
mean in every generation there are a few
there are a few
famous anthropologists but how many
people with phd's anthropology end up
teaching english as a second language in
japan
how many of them end up teaching there's
a second language in taiwan thailand
laos you and the various places i met
them
and i knew one guy with a phd in
anthropology uh who ended up getting a
job working in the the back of a kitchen
as a fry cook and helping to train the
other staff then i remember he went on
to uh he went on to work in a wine shop
selling bottles of wine over the counter
now
look
if you love
anthropology if you love reading about
anthropology if you love writing about
anthropology if this is really part of
the meaning of life for you and you're
willing to do it anyway you know if
you're willing to you're willing to
publish a book
and you feel that researching and
writing and publishing that book about
anthropology is worthwhile even if
nobody else reads it even if nobody else
appreciates it you know i mean there are
some people who have that level of
commitment to anthropology and i'm going
to be real with you i think when i was
working as an editor i used to work in
the publishing industry i think some of
my clients were like that some of the
authors whose books i was helping to
publish these were these were written by
people who had they had no hope that
anyone would ever read their book they
had no hope of ever getting ahead as a
in a career and never being a professor
but they were really committed to
anthropology they felt that this was
worth doing even if it ended in failure
or forget the ending in the end we're
all dead after all you know sooner or
later you die of old age no matter what
you specialize in but they for them was
worthwhile to fail again and again and
again and to keep on failing for them
anthropology was worth doing even if it
were a failure
the vast majority of people who make
that decision who make that commitment
who decide to spend tens of thousands of
dollars in some cases it's it's more
than a hundred thousand dollars like
getting a master's degree and a phd it
can be a lot of money you know uh and to
spend many of the best years of their
life struggling and suffering and not
doing innumerable other things
just to get that certification in in
anthropology the vast majority of the
people i've met uh they have the
delusion that they will go on to be the
one in a million they will they will be
what's a good comparison here in
stand-up comedy they will be the
equivalent of what who's the famous
standard comedian right now they will be
the next kevin hart what kevin hart is
to stand up comedy if you go into
stand-up comedy it's an equally good
example and you're going to put in the
time and the hours and the effort and
suffer the humiliation and suffer the
failure have the audience not laugh at
your jokes again and again go to open
mic nights and try your material and
once in a while you get a good joke like
you have a bad set there are a couple
good jokes and then someone else steals
your jokes you get to live through that
you have to live through all the shame
and humiliation of failure again and
again and again
well if that process
is worthwhile for you if you're
motivated
not motivated to succeed but you're
motivated to fail
that it's worth failing
then standing up comedy is worth doing
then anthropology is worth doing dennis
the right then that's the right path for
you and in a sense
if you succeed
that that won't really matter like if
you're incorruptable if you're
corruptable success will corrupt you the
money and the fame and success will
corrupt you of course but if you're
incorruptable it won't matter you'll be
in a position to say that as an
anthropologist or as a comedian you're
doing exactly the same thing that you uh
you would be doing you're doing exactly
the same thing you'd do um
if there if nobody was watching if
nobody were laughing you know if as a
stand-up comedy comedian if no one were
reading your book now here's the thing
about youtube
youtube is this unbelievably malleable
uh medium right like the first two
examples they're really quite narrow
what do you want to do in anthropology
anthropology is based on so-called
participant observation and you could
write up a monograph you know what i
mean i'm gonna imagine wouldn't it be
great to have a monograph about what was
going on with the ojibwe
of um the upper peninsula of michigan
during the bill clinton years reflecting
eight years of field work eight years of
research that's anthropology you go out
you live with people you listen to them
like ideally you don't even ask them
questions ideally you don't even ask
them what they think about policy you
just listen to them when they talk about
politics you know you note things down
and you do some kind of analysis who's
who's going to care
you will you can
you know
but the problem is most people they have
attachment to outcomes
that
it's not that the outcomes are
impossible it's not even that they're
improbable it is in a sense that those
outcomes can't be earned the point is
not that you can't succeed
the point is not that nobody succeeds
the point is not that failure is
inevitable the point is not even that
success is improbable
the point is not that it's that it's one
in a million the point is that the
difference between success and failure
is something you cannot earn
right and i mean everyone knows this if
what you're chasing is fame and a big
audience
you know the most the most ridiculous
circumstance could happen that makes you
famous on the internet you get into a
fight with a waitress
and a famous person who happens to be in
the restaurant at the same time as you
throws their drink at you and all of a
sudden you're you know a million people
are interested some complete nonsense
like this can catapult you to fame
whereas the diligence and hard work to
create a really great album as a rapper
uh to create a really great set as a
stand-up comedian to do something really
worthwhile right or to put in the time
necessary to be a youtuber or the time
necessary to be an anthropologist right
you can't earn
that further outcome so you have to
commit to you know your own creative
role your involvement in the art form in
a way where you are going to be happy
where it is going to be meaningful to
you even if it's a failure so knowing
that
you know
um
well what kind of rap album do you want
to make
how is this going to affect your rap
music once you kind of not it's not that
you've let go of the process it's not
that you've let go of the product like
you still care about quality you still
care about doing the best you can and
make making a great rapper making an
album that's better than the rap songs
that are in the top 10 whatever okay but
what do you what do you want to rap
about what is going to be the content of
this now i would suggest to you naively
that probably you not a general you the
actual specific human being in the
audience listening probably you would
say that you want to make an album
singing about or rapping about something
that's really meaningful to you
something where it's really going to be
worth it for you to put in all this
effort if it never makes you 100
if it's never successful and where if
you're listening to it again again i
mean what if you have to perform the
song live 100 times you aren't getting
sick of it you don't regard it as
shallow right where there's something
about it where you feel you're doing
something uniquely valuable now what if
i said to you hey that's a terrible idea
how about instead you listen to
the songs that are currently on the top
10 for rap you make a new song
which is like an average of the lyrics
in the top 10 rap songs so you know like
you go through verse by verse you're
like okay so five of them talk about
being a drug dealer five of them talk
about pimping well you know you go
through you you isolate it thematically
and what the raps are yeah um uh
conflict with the police conflict with
your own parents like take out the
different kind of stereotype things okay
oh okay no they also rap about how
expensive their shoes are
you know how they have a better gold
watch than a famous basketball player
you could go through image by image of
mine and you could create a rap song
that is indistinguishable from its
competition
how are you going to feel with that
now most people most young people but
let's be real most middle-aged people
also they will think about this as if
success is a foregone conclusion they'll
say oh a little it's going to be great
they're going to be so happy once this
is a hit rap song and once they have you
know millions of fans and huge amounts
of money
oh they they have no problem with their
own lack of originality given the
presumption of success and success on a
massive scale success in a way that's
gonna that's gonna change their lives
okay okay okay okay
but how are you gonna feel if you're
committed to this this idea that if
you're gonna do this you have to be
comfortable with failure it has to be
worthwhile for you as a process and as a
product if you fail again and again and
again now what so i think what's
paradoxical about this is that the
presumption of failure or embracing
failure actually results in you raising
your own standards it results in you
increasing your expectations of yourself
and saying okay then i don't want to do
the same thing everyone else is doing
because i'm not going to make any money
out of it i'm not going to get famous
doing it i have to actually do this for
for the sake of the art itself or for
the sake of the message itself or for me
for me myself i have to do this for me i
think what a lot of people are addicted
to is the idea of effortless success the
an end and let's be clear
youtube gives you a
remarkable number of examples of
effortlessly successful people
um you may think that you can just come
on camera and talk about your own life
the way trisha paytas did so i think
trisha paytas goes back more than eight
years more than 10 years maybe 15 years
now on this platform
and that you can for example be a fat
self-pitying uh former stripper who
comes on camera and breaks down weeping
about your breakup with your
ex-boyfriend breaks down weeping about
your struggles to lose weight and how
you never lose weight she breaks down
weeping with a misery in her life that
you can be a fat sobbing fool on camera
that's what trisha paytas did and you
will be elevated to success just like
treasure buddies no game plan no
strategy where you don't think of it as
filmmaking you don't think it was any
effort now look the the problem with
youtube is that you can't learn from
success right success on youtube is
self-instantiating these instances like
present themselves and the easiest
examples to see well why don't you come
up with an arithmetic estimate for me of
how many fat self-pitying middle-aged
people come on youtube and talk about
breaking up with women and they never
get 100 views they're never gonna and
how many of them did it fifteen years
ago one treasure because you can you can
say usually oh well she was here at the
beginning yeah there were a lot of those
channels have been deleted like a lot of
the evidence has disappeared most of
them didn't keep their channels up but
you know what there were a lot of people
coming on and talking about their lives
autobiographically and again ultimately
it can't be about the odds it's not
about a gamble it's not about rolling
the dice and seeing who wins seeing who
gets to be the next trisha paytas
because the investment of time and
energy you're making is a hundred
percent certain it's only the outcome
that's uncertain right so regarding it
as a gamble is misleading learning from
success is very difficult especially if
you don't know people face to face they
don't really talk you through what they
went through and and how they how they
succeeded and where their money comes
from i used to work in the publishing
industry
and there were a lot of really weird
publications
for editors and publishers they're kind
of publications they're not secret but
they're only read by people who are who
are inside the industry
and i can remember reading articles
talking about the fact from different
angles people have this assumption that
you're getting rich from books
like whether you're the editor or the
author or whatever and people do show up
at these uh conventions in the
publishing industry they're different
kind of book events and they may show up
driving a ferrari or a lamborghini or
something and people think oh you know
that's because he published his book or
oh that's because he is an editor or a
book publisher he's making all this this
money out of out of books it's like no
this guy inherited several million
dollars from his parents and then
decided to go into the book publishing
industry as a kind of charity and this
applies to the authors also so i mean
anything like this this is a simple
example but boy is it is it deep i mean
you know there are so many people on
instagram today i heard about one in
specific from a specific youtuber she
was talking about her ex-boyfriend there
are people who photograph themselves
leaning on an expensive car
with a woman in a bikini and the
illusion the audience has is that this
guy owns this expensive car
because of the money he's making out of
instagram itself regardless of the
extent to which you know the model is
paid for and the car is a rental you
know those things aside um
you know
what is success and where does the money
come from and to what extent is your own
position uh bought or paid for what the
public regards as an asset can really be
a liability if you don't know people
face to face if you don't work with
people face to face
it's very hard to learn from other
success and you may you may end up
imitating the aspects of their business
model that are liabilities you know and
not not the real source of their of
their success so james newman says that
there are so many videos on youtube from
authors talking about how poorly paid
they are uh yes i can send um
i could send a link on that but i have
to go dig through my my email there are
websites that collect together the
complaints from successful journalists
about exactly how little they got paid
to do a feature story in rolling stone
and it'll list the amount of money they
got paid the number of months of work
they did the number of pages of text it
was like how much how much time went
into the research how much time went to
the writing how many pages was and then
it's like and then rolling stone paid me
400 us dollars
um so you know i'm using rolling stone
as an example that's one that sticks in
my mind it's so that authors can compare
notes with one another and say well look
i only got paid two hundred dollars what
did you get paid and these people are
already in the incredibly uh privileged
cast of of being able to publish and get
and get paid for it at all i remember a
particular article and i think in this
case it was in the guardian but maybe
maybe it was in
publishers weekly or new york new york
review of books or something because i
used to read some weird publications
connected to the potions a woman
describe a certain hit author
uh he was at the one of the book launch
events uh launching one of his books and
there were many people at the event who
were in the know that this guy was
basically born a european aristocrat
like his parents owned a castle you know
we had to get money this way and he got
a question from the audience which was
completely sincere and the person still
says hey look i'm a fan of your books
you know this is the third book of yours
i've read and i love but tell me you
know i i see you know you have a wife
and kids and you know you're a little so
what i don't understand is how could
someone like you devote your time to
writing this kind of philosophical stuff
with no other no other job or career the
guy gave an answer which was 100
insincere he stood there and said
yes it's very difficult but you know
i have to supplement my income by also
placing uh short articles in newspapers
and magazines
and so the woman writing the article
that i was reading she said there was a
very telling laugh
and it was laughter that didn't come
from one part of the audience but here
and there throughout the audience there
were enough people who knew what this
guy's real financial situation was and
the reality that this was you know an
aristocrats hobby
he didn't rely on his books for money at
all and that indeed every stage of his
career including
at least initially publishing his first
or second book was directly paid for
many authors now launch their careers by
paying you know they pay the publisher
to print and publish the book so the
book itself is is money losing for the
author not not money making the point is
there is a problem here with
strength being misperceived as weakness
and weakness being misproceeded as
strength and it is very very hard to
learn from successful examples if you
don't actually know those successful
people if you can't actually listen to
them and talk to them and
see
ideally you participate in the process
and you really understand how their
business works as well as really
understanding uh how their art works uh
this video is addressed to people and it
may be none of you in the audience
you know it may be none of the
particular people with science right now
but it's addressed to people who've
admitted to themselves that they want
youtube to be their only career that
ideally they'd make a transition from
this being a hobby to being there to
being their sole source of income so the
question and actually you do to ask joke
about that and again many of these kind
of reflections they apply to many many
other lines of work many other i don't
know
many other interests in life whether
they're research interests career
interests educational interests or what
have you i
you know my girlfriend and i we read a
lot of literature from ancient greece in
rome
within the last four and a half years we
have had a lot of stuff we've been
reading from ancient athens in rome i
think melissa i think you're also
impressed now by looking at appian i
know you haven't had that much time with
it so you know really we first did
athens but lately we've also read so
from
it would be quite a decision to make
that your career to say hey i don't want
to do this as a hobby i want to make
reading and talking about ancient roman
literature in latin i want to be and
could do it i could do it too look let's
not be humble i also could
compared to other languages of study you
know latin would be incredibly easy uh
no offense what a leap
and what a thing to admit to yourself
now we've already brought into this
conversation the other kind of
philosophical question which is okay if
you want to do this you want to do
ancient latin and or ancient greek
okay and you want that to be
are you going to be happy with yourself
if you fail if you commit to this you
give it 110
and i don't just mean that you fail in
the end you fail in the process you fail
again and again and again you know now
maybe it's worth it maybe it's going to
be great maybe you can really feel good
about yourself and you say you're going
to get a part-time job
working at arby's i don't know
does rb's exist in europe maybe i should
use a less specific cultural example i
don't know you're going to get yourself
a part-time job as a librarian there's
something more vegan you're going to get
yourself a part-time job as librarian
you're gonna put all your time and
energy into studying latin and greek and
maybe publishing your own additions and
writing your own research and coming on
youtube and talking about what you're
doing
you are gonna do this and even if nobody
ever cares and you never earn any money
out of it still you know this is worth
it to you right you you you love it
enough that it's going to be worth it to
you okay
you know so so that works right if
you're if you're committed to it where
you're not just committed to success
you're willing to make the commitment
you're willing to put in the effort even
if it ends in failure or even if it's a
failure at every stage okay so now
you've got the winning formula like
there's a sense in which you can't lose
because even if you lose you're when you
win because you're going to be so happy
with yourself and so happy with your
life that you managed to learn latin or
you managed to learn ancient greek and
you managed to do this research and
publish these studies and come on
youtube and share that with a few dozen
people who care whatever if you can be
happy failing okay you've gotta you've
got a working model
have you ever known someone who decided
to become a bodybuilder and uh come on
youtube and talk about weight loss and
fitness
and they never get more than 500 viewers
do you know anyone like that i know a
lot of people like
okay okay the problem is in terms of the
content you're doing in terms of the
choices you're making right is it going
to be worth it to you to sacrifice your
whole life
to going to the gym and eating that
regimented diet and photographing
yourself in that bikini or if you're a
dude photographing yourself in those
bikini bottoms you know whatever you
know what i'm saying and and paying for
the waxing and paying for the laser hair
removal okay and all the work you're
putting into your appearance and your
health and fitness to come on youtube
and give a message and again before i
talked about being a rapper where your
rap lyrics are like an average of 10
other rappers rap lyrics right you are
probably giving health advice that could
be generated as the average of 10 other
bodybuilding youtube channels right like
i can take those put them into a
computer and get the average and you're
saying something that approximates what
10 other youtube channels said right and
you are devoting all of your time and
energy that and you probably
made that commitment or made that
decision with success as a foregone
conclusion and you didn't think about
how meaningful is this going to be from
how rewarding is it going to be for me
if i fail
if you know anyone who is an aspiring
youtuber aspiring professional youtuber
share the link
share the link with them i'd be nice to
have someone here is actually in the
struggle but as i say a lot of these
reflections are meaningful to every
other
every other kind of struggle
[Music]
you